All right,
we're gonna test our custom hook next.
So let's make a new file here.
It's gonna be called usebreedList.test.JS.
We're gonna need that, bring that
pragma over, that's a color pragma.
It's like a comment at the top that
means that something's special.
Import, expect, and
test from up @jest/global.
Import render from @testinglibrary/react.
And import useBreedList
from ../useBreedList.
So I wanna write a tests that test to make
sure that useBreedList works correctly.
The problem with that breedList
is that it has a hook, right?
Hooks can only run inside
of react components.
So how do we test that?
Well, we're gonna make
a fake react component.
So I'm gonna write a function
here that says, getBreedList.
And it's gonna take an animal.
Say Let List, Function TestComponent.
List is gonna be equal to
useBreedList with animal.
And then it's just gonna return null.
React components that return
null just don't render anything,
right, which that's a valid
thing to return in react.
I'm gonna render TestComponent,
And then I'm gonna return List.
So now I have this function that I can
call, that basically renders a dummy
component, runs a custom hook in there,
pulls that out and returns it.
We're very much dangerously
toeing the line of,
we're testing implementation details now,
right?
But I also argue that testing your
custom hook is a valid thing to do.
And this is the only way that we
can get something out of a hook.
So let's write a test that uses that,
gives an empty List with no animal.
A sink blah is equals that,
const breedList status equals
getBreedList with nothing, right,
we're not gonna give it anything,
expect breedList toHaveLength 0.
And expect status toBe unloaded.
That passes.
So again, I grant you,
this is very strange.
In fact,
there's a way easier way to do this.
I had to do it the hard way to just see
that, I'm gonna show you a little tester
thing that we can do,
our little tester library that we can use.
That basically does this for
you under the hood, but
it just hides all
the implementation details for you.
So stop your tests here for just a second
and I want you to npm install -D.
This is
testing-Library/react-hooks@7.0.2.
Okay, this is just a little tiny helper
that does exactly what we just did for us.
Okay and then we can put back on here npm
run test go and watch to get that back.
And I'll just minimize that for a second.
Okay, and then here,
we're gonna get render hook and
we're gonna get that from react dash hook.
So this is another little tester helper
function that we can do specifically for
a custom hook.
So you can delete all of
this get read list stuff.
Deleting code is my favorite thing.
Okay, and
then you just have to do basically const
result equals renderhook,
and you give it a function,
That it's going to run
inside of a react context.
So use BreedList with nothing or empty
string, either one of those, that's fine.
And then here we'll just
say const breedList,
comma status, =result.
Result is not inferable.
Result.current, sorry.
There we go.
That's got a lot easier to read, right?
You don't have to have that entire helper
function that we are gonna have to
maintain.
So basically this is just going to be run
inside of a react component context so
that all this stuff can happen.
And then it's gonna
give you back a result,
you're gonna pull out a result.current.
Whatever you expect it
to get out of that hook,
this is a really nice helper function for
testing react hooks.
Cool, any questions about that?
One of the points of making your
own custom hooks is that this is
testable now, right?
We can pull them out and
test them really well.
So if you're making custom hooks,
you shouldn't write tests for them.